all right welcome to the Marshall
remodel and this is going to be the
first video for the MADD County 30 build
series give you a little background on
what we're doing out here this is 30
acres and my wife and I bought in
Madison County Iowa it's kind of bit of
a dream of ours to own our own land we
were able to purchase this property last
fall and we're gonna build a post frame
style house and if you don't know what
that is it's kind of like a barn iminium
I'm sure you've either heard of a post
frame style house or barn iminium that's
kind of what it's going to be like and
we're gonna get going on that as soon as
possible
unfortunately the last seven to ten days
we've had nothing but rain and I've been
pretty much rained out of working out
here so I was able to get a small
excavator out here in the last couple
weeks and clear some trees that I wanted
out not all of them that I wanted gone
or gone but the ones that I definitely
need are all down so the excavator I
rented was a small one was about a
thirty five horsepower excavator if
you're asking yourself why would I rat
such a small machine there's couple
reasons for that as we go through this
series my wife and I we sat down we kind
of created a budget for this this build
and we want to stay within that budget
so wherever I can save money that's what
I'm gonna do and by getting a smaller
excavator it did take a little bit
longer to get these trees down but I was
able to haul it myself so I didn't have
to pay the
place where I rented it to haul it out
here and back and it was only I think I
had 16 17 hours on it and I was under
five hundred dollars of my cost to rent
it for that many hours drive it out here
drive it back my fuel and everything so
that's pretty good
[Music]
all right we took a few minutes got I
got some steaks out there so I know
where the edges of the shelter are gonna
be and now I'm gonna dig and take the
backhoe and I'ma dig probably three to
four feet beyond that so I have plenty
of room to work and plenty of room where
I could soak the back so there's no
danger of any dirt falling in on itself
let me get after it
[Music]
many times in my life and during this
project I have felt the urge to quit and
I just can't let myself yeah I just
wanted to share a quick passage from my
favorite book that says I can do all
things through Christ who strengthens me
so whenever you're facing a tough time
and you feel like quitting don't do it
dig down and find the courage to just
stick it out and fight through it
and then every time you face a
challenging moment it'll get easier and
easier to just push through it is July
first
I poured it's Monday I poured this
footing on Saturday so it's been 2 days
I had to go pick up my kids they were
down with my parents for the weekend so
just out here to take off the forms and
I don't know how long I've been at this
probably I don't know maybe an hour or
15 minutes but it's 90 it's like 98
degrees right now so there's nowhere to
get out of the shade except right here
there's no wind so I'm just kind of
trying to take a little break here and
there I'm out here by myself so I don't
wanna do something stupid and pass out
because nobody nobody's coming to check
on me
but anyway I got only have like 8 10
sheets left and then we'll get these
start putting them down in the hole and
I don't have my wedges and all my snap
ties yet however I'm trying to come up
think in my head how I can do this by
myself
most the time when people are
constructing forms for walls there's you
know at least four to six guys doing it
however in my case I'm doing this by
myself so trying to think of a way that
I can do this and I got an idea
it's gonna be a little extra work but
the problem is is these ties you got to
put them in from the inside so you have
to put them in the inside and then put
the other wall up and slide them through
the hole which obviously is problematic
when you're trying to hold 270 pound
sheets of plywood up and put ties in so
after this we'll start on one of the
sides of the walls and I'll kind of show
you what I'm gonna do I have no idea if
it's gonna work yet or not in my head it
seems like it'll work but who knows
we'll find out
[Music]
all right we'll made some good progress
today it's a July 16th and sat down with
a guy and finalized our materials list
today so all that'll be put in to order
tomorrow and it'll be about two weeks he
said four to get the material so I had a
bunch of rock delivered today I got it
all filled in around my storm shelter
basement area and then I had a bunch of
Phil brought in so I have a nice working
area
[Music]
all right July 30th I got some rain
coming here soon so I don't have much
time but there's an episode three when I
laid out showed you guys how to lay out
a building I got all my line string
lines back up I did it the same way that
I showed you guys
[Music]
and let me tell you that was no easy
task so a couple of obstacles sorry I
couldn't do more filming but my hands
were full and we were definitely busy
but category driver drew drove over on
my string line stakes
had a footing move on me so there was
just some things during the pour that
took a lot more time than what I thought
and then of course it's in May 80 the
sun's out so this kind of greet set up
pretty fast but between my dad and I
were able to get it all brackets set I
think we got started a little bit late
on those but we got them in there and
they're already pretty solid so I think
we're going to be good
[Music]
that's all great stuff
the words I can't
you spoken
myself why
because if you tell yourself something
enough times or somebody else tells you
something enough times you're going to
start believing it instead replace those
words with I can and I will and if you
get knocked down get back up if you get
an act down again get back up again
being persistent leads to success
[Music]
we have a showers right there movie star
at
feels much better in this basket and
shimmying up these trusses 270 pound
beast of a man hanging off the other
side shaking it every time
talk about you Travis
[Music]
[Applause]
piece of steel went pretty good
in here but I keep trying to go
I gotta get this done
my second piece up there
built this little
platform to hold my steel up close and
drag another piece up
[Music]
[Applause]
all right we all got all the windows in
the house
installed taped
I have to love the garage which I can't
do until the garage is done but turn out
pretty good but the mistake I made is I
have some extra concrete leftover and we
poured it around the top of these just
to fill that space and that was a huge
mistake and I'll tell you why because
this concrete's over here over this fill
and when all that rain ran down here
that fill settled which all that
concrete settled and it was wrapped
around my footing so it tipped my
footing it didn't sink it just tipped it
and pulled it like about two inches
which is enough to screw it up
so
[Music]
[Applause]
all right well I got my new window well
then we gave all our pulled out
wasn't nearly as bad as I thought got a
little trench dug Monday first thing I'm
gonna pop some greens on the bottom of
there about 40 feet out and I can
backfill all this and I'll feel a lot
better about it so
[Music]
[Applause]
you
[Music]
I believe you know maybe I'm just a
little stubborn but I feel like with a
little reading maybe with a little
YouTube I feel like you can do anything
if you put your mind to it so definitely
can save a lot of money so keep that in
mind when you're doing self doing
something like this or you do yourself
or buddy put your pocket and more
this is to do I couldn't afford to build
this place if I was paying somebody to
do it so that's why I'm doing it and
part of the reason I started this
YouTube channel and my wife started the
blog is because we wanted to share this
stuff with you so that you can have the
confidence to do some of this stuff on
your own and the only way you learn is
by just jumping in there and doing it if
you're a little anxious or nervous about
doing something you know the only way
you're gonna learn is by us by doing it
now I wouldn't say go out and start with
a septic system but you can start small
and work your way up that's what I did
I pretty much taught myself how to do
everything whether that's been watching
how-to videos or reading or you know
working for other people I've learned
how to do a lot and it saved me a ton of
money over the years and has allowed us
to get to this point where we can
actually build this house on this
property so
[Music]
[Applause]
[Laughter]
[Music]
[Applause]
alright thanks for watching everybody if
you guys enjoyed this do me a favor and
hit that subscribe button and go to our
YouTube channel check out the full
series Mad County build series where we
go step by step on how to build your own
post frame home and stay tuned because
we're going to be doing a full series on
how to finish the inside of a post frame
home it's going to be exciting and if
you guys like this you're gonna love the
inside finishes so thanks for watching
and we'll check you on the next video
[Music]